Added source guide for Seams-CMS (#20240)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/sourcing-from-seams-cms.md

---
title: Sourcing from Seams-CMS
---

## Overview

[Seams-CMS](https://seams-cms.com) is a headless CMS system that allows you to easily manage content and data with either simple or complex structures and supports localization.

Creating a Seams-CMS account is free for small hobby or small sites. For this tutorial, we will be using the demo workspace that is automatically created when you create a new account. Make sure you add an API key to this workspace. We will be needing your workspace ID and the (read-only) API key shortly.

## Setup

Create a new Gatsby site with the [default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default):

Run this in your terminal:

> `gatsby new seamscms-site && cd seamscms-site`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
gatsby new seamscms-site
cd seamscms-site
```
````

### Install the source plugin

> Next, we will be installing the Seams-CMS gatsby source plugin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will be installing the Seams-CMS Gatsby source plugin:
```

> `yarn add seams-cms-gatsby-source`

Reviewer: gatsby docs using always `npm` 
````suggestion
```shell
npm install --save  seams-cms-gatsby-source`
```
````

### Adding configuration

When you have installed the plugin, it's time to configure it. Add the following code to the `gatsby-config.js` file found in the root of your project.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  ...
  plugins: [
    ...
    {
      // Seams-CMS source plug
      resolve: 'seams-cms-gatsby-source',
      options: {
        apiKey: <API_KEY>,
        workspace: <WORKSPACE>,
        contentTypes: ['blogpost'],
      },
    }
    ...
  ],
  ...
}
```

> Note that `<API_KEY>` and `<WORKSPACE>` should come from your own Seams-CMS account. Inside the `contentTypes` array, we define which content types we want to download from Seams-CMS into GatsbyJS. This should also map to the names of your content type (API id's) that you will be sourcing.

Reviewer 2: Is <WORKSPACE> same as "API workspace ID"? I think maybe add a bit more description, as it might be confused for the API key. Also, maybe state that the API key has to be generated.

Reviewer: mhh:
> (API id's)

this is confusing - there is no `API id` mentioned before.

the ID should be consistent: `API ID` (uppercased like in `workspace ID`)
or is it the `API key` here?

Reviewer: > <WORKSPACE>

if it the `workspace ID` then i would rename this to `<WORKSPACE_ID>`

Author: I've updated the text by clarifying things a bit and renaming to workspace_ID.  Hope this makes a bit more sense now..

> Note that `<API_KEY>` and `<WORKSPACE>` should come from your own Seams-CMS account. Inside the `contentTypes` array, we define which content types we want to download from Seams-CMS into GatsbyJS. This should also map to the names of your content type (API id's) that you will be sourcing.

Reviewer: naming of Gatsby
```suggestion
Note that `<API_KEY>` and `<WORKSPACE>` should come from your own Seams-CMS account. Inside the `contentTypes` array, we define which content types we want to download from Seams-CMS into Gatsby. This should also map to the names of your content type (API id's) that you will be sourcing.
```

### Run and check our connection

Next, we can run Gatsby and let it fetch our blogposts from Seams-CMS:

> `gatsby develop`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
gatsby develop
```
````

> To check if it worked, we can log into the graphQL admin at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql` and look for an `allSeamsCmsBlogpost` section. This means that blogposts are fetched and stored in the graphQL layer of gatsby, ready to be consumed.

Reviewer: Naming of Gatsby and GraphQL
```suggestion
To check if it worked, we can log into the graphQL admin at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql` and look for an `allSeamsCmsBlogpost` section. This means that blogposts are fetched and stored in the GraphQL layer of Gatsby, ready to be consumed.
```

              content {
                name {
                  value
                }
              }
            }
          }
          categories {
            value {
              content {
                name {
                  value
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This will return the blogposts title, content, author name and category name in which the blogpost was posted.

### Generate the blog post page

Now we can create a simple site with just one page holding all blogposts. We do this by creating a template blog index file at `src/templates/blog-index.js` with the following content:

```javascript:title=src/templates/blog-index.js
import React from "react"

import Layout from "../components/layout"

const BlogIndex = ({ pageContext: { blogPosts } }) => (
  <Layout>
    {blogPosts.map(blogPost => (
      <>
        <h4>Title: {blogPost.node.content.title.value}</h4>
        <h4>
          Author: {blogPost.node.content.author.value[0].content.name.value}
        </h4>
        <p>{blogPost.node.content.content.value}</p>
        <hr />
      </>
    ))}
  </Layout>
)

export default BlogIndex
```

> It fetches our blog posts from the `pageContext` (we pass our data along with this variable), and we iterate over all the posts. For each post we print the title, the author's name and the content and whatever you like to add that is present in the graphQL data. For instance, at our Seams-CMS blog, we also fetch things like tags, categories, snippets, image headers, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It fetches our blog posts from the `pageContext` (we pass our data along with this variable), and we iterate over all the posts. For each post we print the title, the author's name and the content and whatever you like to add that is present in the GraphQL data. For instance, at our Seams-CMS blog, we also fetch things like tags, categories, snippets, image headers, etc.
```

             title {
               value
             }
             content {
               value
             }
             author {
               value {
                 content {
                   name {
                     value
                   }
                 }
               }
             }
             categories {
               value {
                 content {
                   name {
                     value
                   }
                 }
               }
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
   }
`
```

Finally, we create and export a `createPages` function in the same `gatsby-node.js` file that will create our page:

```javascript:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createPages = async ({ graphql, actions: { createPage } }) => {
  const query = await graphql(blogQuery)

  createPage({
    path: `/blogs`,
    component: require.resolve("./src/templates/blog-index.js"),
    context: {
      blogPosts: query.data.allSeamsCmsBlogpost.edges,
    },
  })
}
```

Finally, when we rerun `gatsby develop` again, it should generate a `/blogs` page with our content. You can visit this at `http://localhost:8000/blogs`.

## More info

> More detailed info about setting up Seams-CMS with GatsbyJS can be found on our [blog](https://blog.seams-cms.com/entry/using-seams-cms-with-gatsbyjs/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More detailed info about setting up Seams-CMS with Gatsby can be found on our [blog](https://blog.seams-cms.com/entry/using-seams-cms-with-gatsbyjs/).
```

---
title: Sourcing from Seams-CMS
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

You can remove this since the title of the page will serve as a heading for this section about Seams-CMS itself.

> [Seams-CMS](https://seams-cms.com) is a headless CMS system in which you can manage from simple content like blog posts to complex data structures like products and translations. After defining your data types you can easily add content based on your specific structures. Seams-CMS allows you to localize your content and has an advanced security and workflow model. Your content can be retrieved through different JSON API and GraphQL endpoints which allows you to use your content as you see fit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Seams-CMS](https://seams-cms.com) is a [headless CMS](/docs/glossary/headless-cms/) system in which you can manage everything from blog posts to complex data structures like products and translations. After defining your data types, you can add content based on your specific structures. Seams-CMS allows you to localize your content and has an advanced security and workflow model. Your content can be retrieved through different JSON APIs and GraphQL endpoints, which allows you to use your content as you see fit.
```

> Seams-CMS makes it possible use your content in different scenario's: on your website, in your blogs, in your apps while managing your content in a single location.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Seams-CMS makes it possible use your content in different scenarios: on your website, in your blogs, and in your apps while managing your content in a single location.
```

> Creating a Seams-CMS account is free for hobby or small sites. For this tutorial, you'll be using the demo workspace that is automatically generated when you create a new account. Make sure you add an API key to this workspace in the API key settings. You will need your workspace ID and the (read-only) API key shortly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Creating a Seams-CMS account is free for hobby or small sites. The code samples in this guide assume you're using the demo workspace that is automatically generated when you create a new account. Make sure you add an API key to this workspace in the API key settings. You will need your workspace ID and the (read-only) API key shortly.
```

## Setup

Create a new Gatsby site with the [default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default) and install the source plugin.

Run this in your terminal:

```shell
gatsby new seamscms-site
cd seamscms-site
npm install --save  seams-cms-gatsby-source
```

> ### Configure the source plugin

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Configuring the source plugin
```

I missed this before! This form is more consistent with existing guides.

Once you have installed the plugin, it's time to configure it. Add the following code to the `gatsby-config.js` file found in the root of your project.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  ...
  plugins: [
    ...
    {
      // Seams-CMS source plug
      resolve: 'seams-cms-gatsby-source',
      options: {
        workspace: <WORKSPACE_ID>,
        apiKey: <API_KEY>,
        contentTypes: ['blogpost'],
      },
    }
    ...
  ],
  ...
}
```

Change `<WORKSPACE_ID>` and `<API_KEY>` into the ID of the workspace from your own Seams-CMS account and the newly generated API key inside that workspace. Within the `contentTypes` array, you can list all the IDs of the content types you'd like to import from Seams-CMS into your Gatsby site. For this tutorial, you'll only want to import the `blogpost` content.

> ### Check your connection

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Checking your connection
```

Next, run `gatsby develop` to fetch your blog posts from Seams-CMS:

```shell
gatsby develop
```

To check if it worked, you can check the GraphQL playground at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql` and look for an `allSeamsCmsBlogpost` section. If found, it means that your blog posts are correctly fetched and stored in the GraphQL layer of Gatsby, ready to be consumed.

To see what kind of data it holds, try running the following query:

```graphql
query MyQuery {
  allSeamsCmsBlogpost {
    edges {
      node {
        content {
          title {
            value
          }
          content {
            value
          }
          author {
            value {
              content {
                name {
                  value
                }
              }
            }
          }
          categories {
            value {
              content {
                name {
                  value
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This will return the title, content, author name, and categories for each blog post.

> ### Generate the blog post page

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Generating a blog post page
```

---
title: Sourcing from Seams-CMS
---

## Overview

> [Seams-CMS](https://seams-cms.com) is a headless CMS system that allows you to easily manage content and data with either simple or complex structures and supports localization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Seams-CMS](https://seams-cms.com) is a headless CMS system that allows you to manage content and data with either simple or complex structures and supports localization.
```

To help keep things welcoming and inclusive, try to [avoid words like "easy"](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#avoid-easy-and-simple).

> Creating a Seams-CMS account is free for hobby or small sites. For this tutorial, we will be using the demo workspace that is automatically generated when you create a new account. Make sure you add an API key to this workspace in the API key settings. We will be needing your workspace ID and the (read-only) API key shortly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Creating a Seams-CMS account is free for hobby or small sites. For this tutorial, you will be using the demo workspace that is automatically generated when you create a new account. Make sure you add an API key to this workspace in the API key settings. You will need your workspace ID and the (read-only) API key shortly.
```

Several of my suggestions here involve consistent [use of "you" as the pronoun](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#use-you-as-the-pronoun).

## Setup

Create a new Gatsby site with the [default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default):

Run this in your terminal:

```shell
gatsby new seamscms-site
cd seamscms-site
```

### Install the source plugin

Next, we will be installing the Seams-CMS Gatsby source plugin:

```shell
npm install --save  seams-cms-gatsby-source
```

> 

Reviewer 3: What do you think about rolling "Install the source plugin" into the previous section? Something like:

## Setup

Create a new Gatsby site with the [default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default) and install the Seams-CMS source plugin.

Run this in your terminal:

```shell
gatsby new seamscms-site
cd seamscms-site
npm install --save seams-cms-gatsby-source

> ### Adding configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Configure the source plugin
```

> When you have installed the plugin, it's time to configure it. Add the following code to the `gatsby-config.js` file found in the root of your project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have installed the plugin, it's time to configure it. Add the following code to the `gatsby-config.js` file found in the root of your project.
```

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  ...
  plugins: [
    ...
    {
      // Seams-CMS source plug
      resolve: 'seams-cms-gatsby-source',
      options: {
        workspace: <WORKSPACE_ID>,
        apiKey: <API_KEY>,
        contentTypes: ['blogpost'],
      },
    }
    ...
  ],
  ...
}
```

> You have to change `<WORKSPACE_ID>` and `<API_KEY>` into the ID of the workspace from your own Seams-CMS account and the newly generated API key inside that workspace. Within the `contentTypes` array, we define all the ID's of the content types we like to import from Seams-CMS into Gatsby, in this case we only want to import the `blogpost` content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Change `<WORKSPACE_ID>` and `<API_KEY>` into the ID of the workspace from your own Seams-CMS account and the newly generated API key inside that workspace. Within the `contentTypes` array, you can list the IDs of all the content types you'd like to import from Seams-CMS. For this tutorial, you only need to import the `blogpost` content.
```

> ### Run and check our connection

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Check your connection
```

> Next, we can run Gatsby and let it fetch our blogposts from Seams-CMS:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, we can run `gatsby develop` to fetch your blog posts from Seams-CMS:
```

It seems like you're using "blogpost" and "blog post" interchangeably throughout the tutorial. I'd prefer "blog post" unless you're specifically referring to the ID, as in the configuration step.

```shell
gatsby develop
```

> To check if it worked, we can log into the GraphQL admin at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql` and look for an `allSeamsCmsBlogpost` section. If found, it means that blogposts are correctly fetched and stored in the GraphQL layer of Gatsby, ready to be consumed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To check if it worked, check out the GraphQL playground at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql` and look for an `allSeamsCmsBlogpost` section. If found, it means that blog posts are correctly fetched and stored in the GraphQL layer of Gatsby, ready to be consumed.
```

To see what kind of data it holds, try running the following query:

```graphql
query MyQuery {
  allSeamsCmsBlogpost {
    edges {
      node {
        content {
          title {
            value
          }
          content {
            value
          }
          author {
            value {
              content {
                name {
                  value
                }
              }
            }
          }
          categories {
            value {
              content {
                name {
                  value
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> This will return the blogposts title, content, author name and category name in which the blogpost was posted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This will return the title, content, author name, and categories for each blog post.
```

The [Oxford comma](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#make-lists-clear-with-the-oxford-comma) can help clarify lists.

### Generate the blog post page

> Now we can create a simple site with just one page holding all blogposts. We do this by creating a template blog index file at `src/templates/blog-index.js` with the following content:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now you can create a site with just one page holding all blog posts. You can do this by creating a template blog index file at `src/templates/blog-index.js` with the following content:
```

```javascript:title=src/templates/blog-index.js
import React from "react"

import Layout from "../components/layout"

const BlogIndex = ({ pageContext: { blogPosts } }) => (
  <Layout>
    {blogPosts.map(blogPost => (
      <>
        <h4>Title: {blogPost.node.content.title.value}</h4>
        <h4>
          Author: {blogPost.node.content.author.value[0].content.name.value}
        </h4>
        <p>{blogPost.node.content.content.value}</p>
        <hr />
      </>
    ))}
  </Layout>
)

export default BlogIndex
```

> It fetches our blog posts from the `pageContext` (we pass our data along with this variable), and we iterate over all the posts. For each post we print the title, the author's name and the content and whatever you like to add that is present in the GraphQL data. For instance, at our Seams-CMS blog, we also fetch things like tags, categories, snippets, image headers, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This template fetches your blog posts from the `pageContext` (passing your data along with this variable), and iterates over all the posts. For each post, it prints the title, the author's name, the content, and whatever you like to add that is present in the GraphQL data. For instance, you could also fetch things like tags, categories, snippets, image headers, etc.
```

> Once we have created our template, we will be connecting our data to the template. We can do this inside the `gatsby-node.js` found in our root directory. Note that we will be needing a GraphQL query that we can generate automatically through the web interface. Select all the fields you want to use in your template and copy/paste the query into the new file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have created your template, you can connect your data to it! Check out the `gatsby-node.js` file found in your root directory. Note that you will need a GraphQL query that you can generate automatically through the web interface. Select all the fields you want to use in your template and copy/paste this query into the new file:
```

```javascript:title=gatsby-node.js
const blogQuery = `
   query MyQuery {
     allSeamsCmsBlogpost {
       edges {
         node {
           content {
             title {
               value
             }
             content {
               value
             }
             author {
               value {
                 content {
                   name {
                     value
                   }
                 }
               }
             }
             categories {
               value {
                 content {
                   name {
                     value
                   }
                 }
               }
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
   }
`
```

> Finally, we create and export a `createPages` function in the same `gatsby-node.js` file that will create our page:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You're almost there! Next, create and export a `createPages` function in the same `gatsby-node.js` file that will create your page:
```

The next sentence also starts with "finally". 😄

```javascript:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createPages = async ({ graphql, actions: { createPage } }) => {
  const query = await graphql(blogQuery)

  createPage({
    path: `/blogs`,
    component: require.resolve("./src/templates/blog-index.js"),
    context: {
      blogPosts: query.data.allSeamsCmsBlogpost.edges,
    },
  })
}
```

> Finally, when we rerun `gatsby develop` again, it should generate a `/blogs` page with our content. You can visit this at `http://localhost:8000/blogs`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, when you run `gatsby develop` again, it should generate a `/blogs` page with your content. You can visit this at `http://localhost:8000/blogs`.
```

> ## More info

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Other resources
```

This is for consistency with other pages in the docs!

> More detailed info about setting up Seams-CMS with Gatsby can be found on our [blog](https://blog.seams-cms.com/entry/using-seams-cms-with-gatsbyjs/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For more detailed information about setting up Seams-CMS with Gatsby, see the [Seams-CMS blog](https://blog.seams-cms.com/entry/using-seams-cms-with-gatsbyjs/).
```
